# Personal Website
#### Video Demo:  [<URL HERE>](https://youtu.be/Vs0LHUDn96Q)
#### Description: For my CS50 final project, I made a personal website. I made it with Flask, Jinja, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The contains all of the work from the "homepage" and "finance" problems from Problem Set 9, as well as more original content I made for the final project. From the "homepage" problem, I brought in my four webpages, and additionally added in a navigation bar. I edited the text on all of the pages a bit to be a bit more concise and grammatically correct, and made the HTML much more readable. The main change was the "something.html" page, where I added more things, such as an improved "flashbang" button, a link to the new chat room/comment section, and a link to the "finance" problem solution. The flashbang button is a self explanatory button that flashes a white screen to simulate a flashbang explosion. I used JavaScript's DOM functions to access the HTML and change it with the click of a button. The "finance" part of my webpage is mostly the same as the solution, except I added a new leaderboard tab to see the leaderboard for the most cash. It works by querying the user table in the database to find the users with the most cash and then listing them. Since there is now a leaderboard for the most cash, I hid the page I made where you can get more cash. I also edited some of the branding to just make the webpage just "Finance" instead of "C$50 Finance". For the chat room, I made a whole new application. It uses a form to take in a username and comment, which it then stores in the database. Then the webpage dynamically shows the newest 20 comments, acting as a chat room/comment section of sorts. It also sanitizes user input correctly to prevent SQL injections and also limits the characters the name and comments can be to help save storage space.

In the project folder, there are 3 other folders, two python files, and a database. The first folder, "flask_sessions", contains all of the files that have the user sessions in them. The second folder, "static", is a folder to store all of the static information. It contains a font file used in my webpage for the homepage part of it, a favicon, a PNG for the HTML validator button on the finance section of it, and two style sheets, the first one for the finance section and the other for the homepage section. The last folder, "templates", contains all of the HTML pages themselves. Within the folder, there are 17 different pages, including the homepage pages, the chat room pages, and the finance pages. The first python file is the main applications which contains the code for the chat room and the finance section. It specifically contains a lot of functions, like "sell()" for the sell page in the finance section. The second python file is a helper file written by the people at CS50. It contains everything needed to run the finance section, such as configuring and using the Yahoo finance API. The final file is the database used to store information of everything, such as all of the transactions from the finance section and all of the chat logs from the chat room section. It contains three tables, users, transactions, and chat. Users contains all of the finance accounts, transactions contains all of the transactions the happened in the finance section, and chat contains all of the messages sent in the chat room. There are two more files, including this one, which just contain information about the project.

While making this project, I did make some design decisions. The first of which was which style to use. The homepage and chat room part of the project had a dark mode style design, while the finance part had the light more style. I tried to choose one or the other, but I had decided to keep the different parts with their own design, as I wanted them to feel like multiple different projects I had made. I also had to make the decision of whether or not I should add a typewriter effect to my page. When i designed the homepage section, I wanted it to have a command line interface type style, and felt that a typewriter style effect would help sell that. I ultimately decided not to, as it was hard to find any example code to help me make it in the way I wanted it, with one character appearing at a time.

Overall, the project took me around 10 hours to make. It was fun to implement my own ideas, like the chat room, and I ended up spending long hours making it. It was harder that most of the problem sets as there was no starter code aside from my homepage and finance solutions, and it was also much harder due to all bugs that took a lot of time to fix.
